Tags: #daily #flashcards 

### Monday, Feb. 7
Ok woke up at 10 went to the caf had too much coffee my stomach hurts but I am now in calc it is 11:55 and I am sitting in the seat closest to the door so I can leave ASAP I'm not sure when maybe I can do 11:48 or something this is my first time trying to leave early so I can probably be excused like two minutes and I can adjust to leave later as the week goes on idk we'll see once I get to ling 

Also I'm gonna try to take notes in class it'll be awesome

Notes
- Bring Lab 1 tomorrow
- Quiz in lab on 6.1 Ares Between Curves
- Do Phonetics practice today!! Due some time Wednesday
	- It's ok to mix hooked a and rounded a we're using a practice from a different class
	- If emphasized syllable, use wedge, if not, schwa, but doesn't matter too much
- Actual Phonetics assignment due after practice due next Monday
	- Make flashcards for american english symbols (green paper)
		- monopthong vowels and consonants (some stuff on green paper don't need to maek flashcards for)
			- remembering not the sounds, but the **parameters** in flashcards
				- oh god
		- Writing physically recommended (lol I won't do that)
		- Attach a photo or link to comments box
	- Transcribe your own pronunciation of the list of words on the next page
		- Attach a legible pdf to Blackboard submission

I made two pages for phonetics III notes and IPA notes I need to make those into one it'll be a lot easier

- Short Response due wednesday midnight (150 words)
- Programming challenge 1 due any time before friday midnight
	- Can choose challenge 1 or challenge 1++, one is more advanced than the other
- Feb 21 guest visit: Luca Paravano graduate student talking about distant reading
- We don't need to memorize the Propp's functions but we will do some sequencing in future assignments

10:06 pm Based on taking notes today I think having daily notes done in the school vault would be helpful. There were a lot of places above where I could have linked to a page. Maybe I can have this space for thoughts like these, and a daily document in the school vault for everyday notes. Eventually, I could add daily notes to this vault too maybe.

Looking at the week:
- Continue to work on note taking
	- Catch up on calc notes, fill in pages made, at least the pages for topics reviewed in class
	- Transcribe all LING notes? Could take a while but would be worth it in preparation for note sharing next week
- CS100 assignments
	- Programming Challenge 1++
		- Shouldn't be too difficult
	- Folk vs. literary short response
		- only 150 words maybe I should get that out of the way tonight
- LING assignments
	- Phonetics practice
		- Do tomorrow (between classes?) it's due Wednesday, should be very simple (and helpful) maybe even take notes on it
	- Phonetics assignment
		- Flashcards
			- Yay time to try out the spaced repitition plug in! Due next Monday, start the flashcards asap so that I can practice them. Maybe tomorrow should just be linguistics day
		- Transcription
			- This should be simple too, just maybe time consuming I'll do this last
- Calc assignments
	- Lab 2
		- Last week I did this right after lab in the caf and I think I should do that again? I'm not sure what kind of work I want to do tomorrow. I need a comfortable study space.
- Other
	- Get earbuds I could do this tomorrow? or maybe wednesday. It depends when I want to go to Food Lion.