Tags: #daily #flashcards 

### Sunday, Feb 6
Hello bestie Obsidian updates since yesterday let's see I didn't do any more note taking and I didn't walk around downtown because it was super cold but also last night i watched more videos about Obsidian and zettelkasten did you know that zettelkasten means wooden box of cards or something also in the video they talked about daily notes in obsidian and there's an option to have a note created every day with the date and that sounds like a good way to have these thoughts and the daily notes I'm taking for school in Notion in one place. If I want those in one place I haven't decided I could have daily notes for both vaults or merge these two vaults into one I'm not sure what would work better

Tomorrow I will try to write my daily notes in Obsidian I'll turn that setting on. I'll do it in place of the notion notes so I can take academic notes in the school vault also this means I can try taking more thorough notes during class instead of after because I really never do anything after I learned that with Remnote last semester.

Goals for tomorrow
- Get to calc early
- Sit near the door in calc
- Leave at like 12:48
- Take thorough notes in Obsidian with a daily document

Anyways it is currently 7:57 today I stayed in bed and read until like 5pm then I showered went to the caf and then wandered around campus trying to find a study space but I couldn't find anything neat and ended up in the library. So I'm sitting here in the nice spot in the basement this spot is ok I guess if I get bored taking notes I can wander around the library and look for a better spot if such a thing exists

Current goals for tonight are to do my two CS100 reading about fairytales and folklore or something and then work on my calc notes more, and linguistics too. I'll start now with the readings. Ok wtf Opera GX keeps doing this thing where it doesn't open unless I use my computer with the monitor hooked up. Like the tab is still on the other screen and won't show up. Ok fixed it for future reference try pressing Win + D until it shows up

Finished reading the stories it is 10:13 I'll take a look at the other reading and if it's long I just won't do it I'm still not sure if I have to do that one at all anyways
It is 8 pages of dense analysis of folktales bye I'll skim the start
Ok I read the whole thing it actually wasn't 8 pages there was an appendix of cool stuff so it was shorter I'm glad I read it it makes sense now tied to all the folktales we had to read that's cool ok I'm going back to the dorm now it is 10:39
