tags: #notes #fleeting
creation date: [[2022-11-03 Thursday]] 14:18:59
description::discussing [[The Only Woman in the Room]]

eek speech went fine i guess
scary
i dont know how to talk but i think i got interesting points across???
i was too quiet and out of breath the whole time
barf

discussion questions
- Who is Sirota Gordon? How does she identify herself?
	- her father was a pianist
	- she comes from a very wealthy background
	- very privileged
	- does she understand she comes from a diff background?
		- became aware of it when on her own in us
		- doesnt seem to mention being aware of it, but definitely talks about how it helps her
	- she is jewish, from austria, grew up in japan
	- can speak russian german japanese english spanish
	- does she have a strong sense of nationality?
		- shes aware of her mixed identity, doesnt necessarily identify as one specifically
		- jewish identity, she was discriminated because of it
	- her ability to speak so many languages/her strong education led to jobs and formed her career
	- as a woman
	- she talks about discriminated against as a woman
	- she had privileges other women didnt have, which led to her being the first/only woman in many spaces
	- 
- How does she narrate her cross-border movement? 
	- What categories does she use? ("As a woman, as a foreigner, as a white woman, etc")
	- she moves a lot from the us to japan and back and etc
	- narrates it based off of what she learned
		- lessons she learned in each place
	- motivation for a lot of movement is to get back to her parents
	- she writes in more of a positive light
	- "it couldve been someone else writing about her" objective
	- could be because she wrote this so long after she experienced these things
	- doesnt go into ton of detail about specific like conditions of living and where she was
	- where was she when she published this? in the 90s
		- she was happily married and well off
		- contributes to specific tone of her writing
- What advantages (or privileges) and disadvantages does she experience in japan during American occupation?
	- shes rich !
	- she had lots of food available, was able to get her parents out of malnutrition
	- she was a white civilian that spoke japanese and grew up in japan and went to college in the us - she had advantages from being "from" both sides of the war
	- disadvantaged by being a young woman, wasnt treated seriously
	- because she got a job in tokyo working for the occupation forces, she had guaranteed food/lodging
- How does she view Japanese society and Japanese women?
	- was trying her best to get articles in the constitution on gender equality/civil rights
	- she feels japanese women are treated poorly, has seen that growing up
	- powerless
	- victims of patriarchy
	- aware of the plight of japanese women / gender based discrimination even as a child
	- viewed japanese society from the outside
	- is she a white savior?
		- its good that shes fighting for womens rights but like couldnt there have been a japanese woman/group of women that could do this
		- she doesnt mention any preexisting feminist movements
		- there were movements before occupation
		- 
- Conservatives in Japan insist that the Japanese constitution was "imposed" by the Americans against the will of the Japanese. Does Sirota Gordon's narrative reinforce this discourse or challenge it?
	- reinforces it
	- inside look at how they wanted to keep this top secret bc they knew this would look bad if people knew they were giving japan a constitution draft instead of revising the drafts that japan gave them
	- so should japan make a new constitution of their own?
	- is this just what they get because they lost the war?
	- they also had the option to amend it
		- very important part
	- its protecting the people who wouldnt have had a say, because a new constitution would have been written by the wealthy conservative elites
	- democratic constitution that wasnt democratically made
		- is there such a thing
		- how do you get everyones say
		- constitutions are written by elites
	- foreigners imposed this constitution

how would you summarize
- language
- outside influence
- the white peril
- perception

no class next tuesday election day