tags: #notes #fleeting
creation date: [[2022-09-19 Monday]] 16:55:57
description:: discussing [[Zhuangzi Basic Writings]]

reading for today - Zhuangzi Basic Writings sections 1 2 4 6 7
what we read last week - on Confucianism - very influential politically, maybe the most influential reading we'll have

## [[Zhuangzi Basic Writings]]
##### initial thoughts
dao de jing and zhuangzi are very different readings, even though they talk about similar things
many anecdotes

##### who was Zhuangzi?
dont know a lot about him
next most important figure in Daoist reading after Lao Tzu
can think of his writings as the next after Lao Tzu's

from Meng (probably Song?)
unknown origins
unknown who wrote the book, common theory is first part was written by Zhuangzi, and the rest written by likeminded writers

structure
Inner Chapters - 1 through 7
Outer Chapters - 8 through 22
Misc. Chapters - 23 through 33
not originally in this format
edited by Guo Xiang d. 312
common theory is that chapters 1 through 7 were written by Zhuangzhi, and the rest were not

two strands of Daoism
Daoism detailing the structure of the universe
Daoism practiced by people
there are people who become interested in Daoism in order to obtain immortality, supernatural power; these ideas show up in the Zhuangzi, but were likely being used metaphorically

writing style
use of paradox to make points
	"not like the lao tzu where we dont know what was meant by passages, zhuangzi was intentionally confusing"
use of non sequitur
	"lot of this that comes up in the first two chapters"
"zhuangzi takes some ideas from the lao tzu and mutates them in some ways"
	lao tzu had the idea of inaction,
	zhuangzi takes this idea further; spontaneity, shouldnt focus on any goal
metaphor
	ex. immortality, walk on water, fly on clouds
	idea at the time that sages could have these powers
	likely used by Zhuangzi as metaphor
	taken literally by many readers as well as practitioners of Daoism

no mention of Zhuangzi in the Lao Tzu
	connection is ambiguous

apolitical

many commentaries on this text
some sections still unclear to those who study the text
"purposefully obfuscated"

##### discussing the text
section 1 - Free and Easy Wandering
starts with story of legendary fish and legendary bird
small animals cant fathom these large beasts' lives
"When we make an effort and fly up, we can get as far as the elm tree ... how is anyone going to go ninety thousand li to the south!"
"the short-lived cannot come up to the ling-lived"

Huizi - a Confucianist logician
mocked in the Zhuangzi

anecdote about hand salve
"failure of imagination"

Huizi anecdote about big tree being useless
Huizi argues that tree is useless, Zhuangzi argues again a failure of imagination, not understand the nature of the tree
"be like the tree and dont have any value for anybody and you wont get in any trouble"
arguing with Confucian idea about how we need to have value in society

Chapter 2
"Great understanding is broad and unhurried; little understanding is cramped and busy"

paradoxes
dichotomies
"words are not just wind"

mocking logicians
"is a white horse a horse?"
(read wikipedia page of this idk im not gonna write it all down what it means)

"so much of whats going on in the Zhuangzi is him mocking/playing with ideas that were floating around at the time"

#quote
"Zhuangzi is all about dunking on people"

paradoxes, etc. are tongue twisters
"there is not yet beginning to be a not yet beginning to be a beginning"
"sounds better in original text"
lots of these
"meant to shock you, meant to not be followed"

"suppose you and I have had an argument. if you have beaten me instead of my beating you, then are you necessarily right and am i necessarily wrong? ..."
objectivity subjectivity

"Penumbra said to Shadow"

"Once Zhuang Zhou dreamt he was a butterfly"
most famous passage
distinguishing between being a butterfly dreaming to be Zhuang Zhou and Zhuang Zhou dreaming he is a butterfly


Chapter 3

"Cook Ding" pg 46
fundamentally understands the way to the extent anyone can
"now I go at it by spirit and dont look through my eyes"
craftmanship
this cook, not an educated person has a fundamental understanding of the way
the way the cook cuts the ox shows the height of skill ^a63d8e

lots of conversation about carpenters/craftmanship


Chapter 4

"Carpenter Shi" pg 59


Chapter 6

pg 86
story about Yan Hui and Confucius
- Confucius' best student that died young
- see [[2022-09-14 CHIN309]]

puts words in Confucius mouth
"this story would never happen in Confucian writing"


only read a small portion
"interesting how distinct the rhetoric is"

"This is probably the end of the super weird stuff - no next class Qu Yuan and the Lisao"

Qu Yuan and the Lisao
- very different worldview from what we've seen so far


assignment
Reflection 1 upcoming due 5pm sept. 30

## Reflection 1 rubric
Please submit a reflection based on material we have covered through September 30th! Don't feel the need to cover everything. You can simply discuss your favorite piece, something interesting that came up in class, or even discuss how you've encountered the topics at hand outside of class.

You have a variety of options for format:

300-500 word reflective essay/pastiche of a reading  
5-10 minute podcast  
5 minute video  
5-page comic book

For written materials, please submit your work as a .docx, .md, or .txt file. Audio files can be .mp3, .wav, or any other common file format (a link to something like SoundCloud is also fine). For video, mp4 or avi files are fine (and alternatively, you can submit a link if the video is hosted on a service like YouTube). If you need to submit visual materials (for a comic book, for instance), .jpg, .png, .tiff, or .pdf files are all fine!

Remember: I will grade these based on coherence, but what this means varies depending on what you submit:

If you make an argument, do you present adequate evidence in support it?

Does your pastiche follow the original in an evident way (feel free to provide additional explanation if you think it might not be clear)? 

Is it clear what message you are trying to get me to take away, and so on.

Presentation also matters: is the material grammatical, well structured, and so on. Finally, content is important: is there a clear relationship with course materials, does it demonstrate a mastery of them?

Please  **avoid passive voice** and double check spelling, grammar, and so on.