tags: #notes #fleeting
creation date: [[2022-11-28 Monday]] 16:56:22
description:: end of semester outline, literature discussion

from last monday
I hope everyone had a good weekend! I am emailing to let you know about a shift in plans: I think the discussion that I wanted to have in class today would work much better in person. So instead of meeting remotely this afternoon, I am going to record the lecture on short-stories and post it for you to watch when you have a moment. We will hold the discussion on Monday after the break instead! We will be talking about the social role of literature in China vs. the West, and having a general discussion about the class materials up to this point.

so discussion today

final presentations
- on monday wednesday next week! >.? !
- everyone should be ready on monday to be fair
- will take volunteers
- no extensions
- expectations
	- 5 slides (title slide 3 content slides closing slide)
	- explain what project is and what stage youre at

final reflection essay
- 5 reflection essays
- and a final reflection essay
- switching that essay to be due same time as final project
- does that means 5th or a 6th one
- um oki

so finishing up coursework
- final reflection
- final project
- short reflective essay
	- 600-800 on takeaways from the class
all 3 due at the same time when final project is due

scrapping the requirement about the one essay must refelct differences of social role blah blah yeah i thought he would
but thats what we're talking about today

ways we interact with literature is distinct
most ppl today arent into poetry
but for the average educated person in premodern china, poetry was important
also how ppl engage with drama
difference between watching and reading a play
different kinds of performances
performing in public spaces in the background vs on a stage in a theatre

what have we encountered in this class that you find interesting?
- in the more literary work theres a high level of formality, specific style
- consuming a piece of media in public, half paying attention half eating or doing something else
	- like watching a tv show while on your phone
- accessibility
	- accessible in drama format - out in the open
		- today, less accessible
	- certain poetry prose was gatekept
		- circulated among smaller circles
	- depends on the kind of drama, some meant to be performed, some meant to be read
	- shakespeare, some found them highbrow, many sat in the peanut gallery, performed in vernacular tongue
- scandalous
	- like in [[A Burial Mound for Flowers]] scene in the red chamber where they read [[Master Dong's Western Chamber Romance]] and its like they arent supposed to be reading
	- like fanfiction
- anonymity
	- novels we talked about were so successful but still were published anonymously
	- didnt want to ruin their reputation, even though so popular
	- like fanfiction
	- pseudonyms used all throughout history
- historical influence
	- many of the stories framed as recounting historical events and not just telling stories
	- early fiction establishes themes
	- like how in western literature we see reference to the bible or shakespeare, in chinese literature we see different works establishing themes and being referenced
	- "relying on earlier literature as a mode of political critique in a framework that tries to minimize political critique"
		- using older poems to highlight something else
		- allusion
		- ex. references to book of songs to critique foreign affairs one instance whre someone alluded to a poem where a minister did something wrong and the person it was written about realized they were saying that they did something wrong
	- so many footnotes in our readings trying to describe all these references!
		- "how connected to history literature is"
		- dictionaries of references circulated! needed in order to understand complex texts and understand what works were referencing
		- "so much meaning was imbued in these references"
		- today - how much of the internet is gonna make sense in 10 years without understanding all the references before?
	- because china is so old we see the morphology of literature
		- from historical record keeping to autobiographical allusions to historical stories to etc to fiction
	- before its time
		- written so so long ago, interesting how these ideas/words existed for so long, how they define history
		- the idea of references being so entangled into the media seems like a novel idea
		- star trek the next generation season 5 episode 2 a world where people only talk in references
	- old literature influences modern media, whether eastern or western
		- all the remakes of [[Journey to the West]]
		- like all the remakes of fairy tales and old movies
		- stories that stick around for so long
		- common tendency to remake things
		- Ponyo was created because studio ghibli thought disney did a bad job with the little mermaid, its like how so many rewrites of [[Story of Ying-ying]] were made

whats been the most surprising of the things weve encountered in class?
- who was writing this literature
	- lifelong politicians
		- in western cultures you dont necessarily associate politicians with literature and beautiful poems
		- makes sense as they were the ones who were educated but still different
		- made poetry such a respected form of art, because it was written by respected members of society
- surprised how casually some were written
	- links to some of the distinct ways poems are used in china
	- fundamental form of expression
- sex 
	- premarital specifically
	- devastating in some stories vs doesnt matter
	- dependent on the writer or how it was seen in society?
	- different attitudes presented
	- different attitudes based on gender
- how little respect fiction/novels had in the beginning
	- written anonymously
	- not respected, lowbrow
	- shows emphasis put on education and language as a tool to transmit education
	- books reflect the environment in which they were created
	- luxury of being able to be a literati/writer
- portrayal of minorities / diversity
	- changing over time
	- china culture isnt unchanging; "many periods of very diverse culture with interest of all sorts of things"
	- tend to think of it as a much more monolithic thing than it was
	- because of use of language, reinforcement of older styles
	- doesnt change that what people were writing in different dynasties different eras is very distinct from other periods
	- also dependent on whats been translated, what becomes part of the "canon" of chinese literature is usually the most popular stuff

this class is introduction to chinese literature
- over the course of 2800 years
- is there any other class that covers literature over such a wide span of time?
- does it make sense to have a class like this?
- we could spend so long on this topic, does it make sense to only spend a semester on it?
- some infinities are bigger than others, theres practically infinite depth in any course
- snapshot of it
- what does an american literature course look like at a chinese university?
- 



office hours 9:30 tomorrow
i could ask ab the final project adn try to brain storm

- [ ] CHIN309 final project - frame as influence of chinese literature in the west - is it growing, stagnant, diminishing, today? in the future? in the past? western literature's influence in china?

---

ok watching the asynch video from last week

Presentations
- 4 to 6 minutes, at least 5 slides
- Describe your project plans
	- What is the topic?
	- Why is it interesting?
	- What type of project is it?
- Share the project's current status
	- Roadblocks you've encountered
	- Issues you still need to take care of
- Be ready to present December 5th
- Fine to change topic after presenting, but won't have much chance for more feedback

##### Jiang Xingge Reencounters his Pearl Shirt
- focuses on a merchant
- im bored i think i could just pklay minecraft and watch this while i do that
- he talks ab stories ok