tags: #notes #fleeting
creation date: [[2022-09-19 Monday]] 10:58:20
description:: methods of proof cont

hw is proofs
due wednesday 6 questions
go to office hours

## Methods of proof
##### proof by cases (continued)
need to construct our proof for each of the possible cases one by one

$(p_1 \vee p_2 \vee ... \vee p_n) \rightarrow q$
$\equiv (p_1 \rightarrow q) \wedge (p_2 \rightarrow q) \wedge ... \wedge (p_n \rightarrow q)$

proving each case one by one

ex. show $|x*y| = |x| * |y|$
can look at signs of x and y, if they are negative/positive
1. $x \geq 0 \wedge y \geq 0$
   $|x*y| = x*y = |x|*|y|$
2. $x \geq 0 \wedge y < 0$
   $|x*y| = x*(-y) = |x|*|y|$
3. $x < 0 \wedge y \geq 0$
   $|x*y| = (-x)*y = |x|*|y|$
4. $x < 0 \wedge y < 0$
   $|x*y| = (-x)*(-y) = |x|*|y|$
done, weve covered every option

ex. show that there are no integer solutions to equation $x^2 + 3y^2 = 8$.
$x^2 \leq 8 \wedge 3y^2 \leq 8$
something soemthing we're skipping this one its in the lecture notes


##### existence proof
to prove there exists an object of certain type, we can simply construct one; called **constructive existence proof**

ex. prove that $\exists$ positive integer $n$ ($\exists n \in Z_+$) that can be written as a sum of cubes of pos. integers in two different ways
	proof, just need to find an example
	$1729 = 10^3 + 9^3 = 12^3 + 1^3$
done

also possible to give a **nonconstructive existence proof**
sometimes a nonconstructive existence proof uses proof by contradiction

ex. prove that $\exists$ irrational numbers $x$ and $y$ such that $x^y$ is rational
	consider $\sqrt 2$
	$z = \sqrt 2^{\sqrt 2}$
	z is either rational of irrational
	if z is rational:
		done
	if z is irrational:
		let $x = z$ and $y = \sqrt 2$
		$(\sqrt 2^{\sqrt 2})^{\sqrt 2}$
		$\sqrt 2^{\sqrt 2 * \sqrt 2}$
		$=\sqrt 2 ^2$
		$= 2$
		done
why is this not a constructive existence proof?
	because we dont know which case is true, only that one must be


##### proof by induction
"induction will bother us for the rest of the semester"
"4 different types of induction we will see that are all similar but increase in complexity"

to prove that $P(n)$ is true $\forall n \geq 1$, prove that
1. $P(1)$ is true and
2. $\forall k (P(k) \rightarrow P(k + 1))$ is true

"i liken this to a staircase"
                   n
             ...
          4
       3
   2
1
"all these steps are climbable"
"find rules that say if you have climbed step n, then you can go to the next step n+1"
"if you know this process then all you need is to prove that you can get to step 1"
"can go all the way to infinity"

to prove that $P(n)$ is true $\forall n \geq 1$, prove that
1. $P(1)$ is true and
2. $\forall k (P(k) \rightarrow P(k + 1))$ is true
#quote
"bread and butter here. theres a lot of breads and butters here"

these are the two basic steps of induction
1. the base case
2. inductive step
	1. inductive hypothesis (what we assume)
	2. inductive step
"we'll split inductive step into two steps for understanding"

ex. prove $\sum ^n _{i=1} i = 1 + 2 + 3 + ... + n = \frac 1 2 n*(n+1)$
"Baby Gauss formula"
proof
	let $P(n)$ be $1 + 2 + 3 + ... + n = \frac 1 2 n*(n+1)$
	base step
		n = 1
		$= \frac 1 2 (1) * (1+1)$
		$= 1$
	I.H. inductive hypothesis
	"write down explicitly what you assume or its points off"
		assume $P(k)$ is true.
		$\sum ^k _{i=1} i = 1 + 2 + 3 + ... + k = \frac 1 2 k*(k+1)$ for some k.
	I.S. inductive step
		we prove $P(k+1)$, we want: $\sum ^{k+1} _{i=1} i = 1 + 2 + 3 + ... + k + (k+1) = \frac 1 2 (k+1)*(k+1+1)$
	we want
		$1+2+3+...+ k+k+1 = \frac 1 2 (k+1)(k+2)$
	by inductive hypothesis
		$\sum ^{k+1} _{i=1} i = \sum ^{k} _{i=1} i + (k+1)$
		$= \frac 1 2 k(k+1) + (k+1)$
		$\frac 1 2 (k+1)(k+2)$
	done
		
		
