
Throughout our readings this semester, we have seen the Daoist idea of "The Way" talked about multiple times. In the Dao De Jing, the Dao, or the Way, is the indescribable natural order of the universe. When someone acts in accordance with the Dao, they follow the flow of reality, act at the right time, do not persue knowledge, and avoid desire. In the writings of Zhuangzi, a butcher has a strong enough connection to the Way that he can cut an ox with perfect precision. The butcher is not a scholar, yet has honed his craft to such an extent that he has formed a connection to the Way.

Zhuangzi also uses immortality, flying on clouds, and other supernatural abilities to describe those close to the Way. These ideas were likely used as metaphors, but many people who practiced Daoism after Zhuangzi's time believed they could attain these powers. This interpretation of the Way as a means of cultivating power is seen even today in fiction genres like progression fantasy, xianxia, and wuxia. These works typically have magic systems and stories that revolve around individuals cultivating power and becoming strong enough to manipulate reality. The biggest and most accessible work from this category of fiction is Will Wight's *Cradle* series.

*Cradle*'s influence from Daoist ideas is explicit: the magic system is based on a force called The Way. In the series, The Way makes reality stable and creates order. It is strengthened by the presence of humans and other forms of intelligent life, and places in the universe with a high concentration of people have a stronger connection to the Way. People with extremely strong wills are able to tap into the Way and manipulate reality. Typically, once they are able to do this, they are too powerful for their homeworld and must "ascend." Without too many spoilers, the protagonist's goal in *Cradle* is to cultivate his willpower to this level.

This cultivation is what the series focuses on, and it comes in many facets. Typically this is done through strengthening one's spirit by cultivating aura and advancing through stages of strength. The people who perform these practices are called sacred artists. By the Lord stage, the final stage before being able to attune to the Way, sacred artists must not only cultivate physical strength, but look inwards and find revelations about themselves. After these revelations are found, sacred artists may manifest icons. Icons represent the identity and peak of skill a sacred artists has reached. 

Much like the butcher who can attune to the Way and perfectly cut an ox, these sacred artists can tap into the Way in order to manipulate reality in ways that attune with their identity. As a sacred artist comes closer to the Way, they perfect their very identity, and the weight of their existence can warp the fabric of reality. Much like the ideas of immortality than Zhuangzi mentioned, those that follow the Way in *Cradle* are able to become one with it.