tags: #assignment
[[JAPN208 Essay 1 planning]]

## Essay 1

In Isabella Bird's *Unbeaten Tracks in Japan*, the English traveler documents her journey through the interior of Japan in 1878. The book is made up of the letters Bird sent to her sister throughout her trip. Bird enters the country in Yokohama, one of the first ports Japan opened to global trade, and from there travels to Tokyo. She prepares for her trip with the help of her European acquaintances living in Tokyo, and travels on foot, horseback, and boat throughout the country, ending in Hokkaido.

While Bird's book serves to document her travels, it can be looked at today through the lens of Japan's rapid development during the Meiji era caused by pressure from Western forces. Mary Louise Pratt in the book *Imperial Eyes* examines similar Western forces of imperialism in the Americas and Africa. We can apply the concepts Pratt uses in *Imperial Eyes* to Bird's journey in *Unbeaten Tracks* to analyze how her travels contributed to Western imperialist efforts in Japan.

Bird's journey through Japan's interior was not only the first time many indigenous Japanese people encountered European culture, but also the first time many Europeans read about Japanese culture. In this way, Bird serves as a "traveling contact zone."

As Pratt describes it, a contact zone is an area where cultures encounter, especially in an imperialist setting, where one culture has power over a smaller, indigenous culture. In Bird's case, the contact is between European and Japanese cultures. When Pratt refers to contact zones, it's typically about a location where groups from the two cultures meet, but here it is one woman moving from village to village, hence traveling contact zone. For many of the people she meets, this is one of the first times they've met a European and been exposed to their culture. This also goes the other way, as Bird's writings circulated in Europe, serving as many readers' first interaction with Japanese cultures. Bird's writings even circulated among cities in Japan, as travel was difficult, and many Japanese people living in urban areas never had the chance to interact with those living in rural areas.

Bird is also able to give a firsthand account of contact zones closer to Pratt's definition. Yokohama and Tokyo both serve as contact zones between Western and Japanese cultures, as they were areas integral to international trade. On her train ride from Yokohama to Edo, Bird describes how the rail was built by American engineers and how the Japanese officials riding with her wore European dress (Bird, 13-14). Another contact zone is between the Aino people and the Japanese government. Bird visits the Ainos, the indigenous people of Hokkaido, and describes how they have recently been struggling with the Japanese government's prohibitions on tattoos and arrow traps (Bird, 159, 165).

In her letters, Bird writes about the hardships she faced, mostly complaining about the quality of living in the villages she stays the night in. As the journey goes on, the reader gets an understanding of Bird's feelings towards Japan. She looks down on the people she meets and finds their living inferior, but revels in the opportunity to study them like a newly discovered species. In one encounter, as a crowd gathers around to see the foreigner that rode into town, she remarks, 

"When I went out I found fully 1000 people helping me realize how the crowded cities of Judea sent forth people clothed much as these are when the Miracle-Worker from Galilee arrived, but not what the fatigue of the crowding and buzzing must have been to One who had been preaching and working during the long day" (Bird, 66).

While she goes back and forth throughout the text between indifference and derision, this quote where Bird likens herself to Jesus Christ shows the height of her ego. She portrays herself as an innocent traveler in a strange land but still sees herself as the most distinguished individual in the village. Bird here fits Pratt's idea of a "protagonist of the anti-conquest" (Pratt, 7).

The anti-conquest is an idea, or even a state of mind, where the colonizing party seeks to claim their actions innocent while continuing to assert their power. Bird is only traveling through Japan, not actively colonizing it, but she still is a part of the Western force pressuring Japan. She claims to just be a tourist, but actively airs her grievances with the current state of the country and looks down upon its people.

The third, final concept Pratt describes is autoethnography, or autoethnographic expression. Pratt describes autoethnographic expression as instances where the colonized take on the colonizer's culture, especially in an attempt to fight or otherwise engage the colonizer on the colonizer's terms. This is the most explicitly political of the three concepts, and as such, Bird's letters don't offer many instances because she avoids politics for most of the text. The Japanese officials' adoption of Western clothing may have been done to be taken more seriously by Western officials (Bird, 14). We also see during Bird's search for an interpreter that many Japanese people were learning English to find work opportunities (Bird, 17). While these people were not necessarily learning English to fight against Western forces, this does show the growing need for interpreters in Japan.

 Bird's travels, whether she knew it at the time or not, would pave the way for other foreign travelers in Japan, contributing to the country's rapid globalization. By analyzing her journey using Pratt's concepts of imperialism, it is clear that Bird contributed to the Western forces that pressured Japan into opening international trade and accepting Western cultures. Bird was one of the first foreigners to make the journey through the interior, and her writings brought many more travelers to Japan after her.