Tags: #daily #flashcards 

### Friday, Jan 28
I was so so so sleepy when I got up at 10 today I'm gonna have to start powering through because I feel like it'll only get more difficult to wake up on time. But I got ready on time and left for calc like 30 minutes before class started so I felt really good. I got coffee on my way and after calc I was two minutes late to linguistics. I think I can make it there on time ish because we got let out of calc 2 minutes late. Once I was settled I felt really relaxed I like that class I think it'll be interesting. After ling I had an hour to kill before the ling workshop so I walked around downtown, I should visit the soap place again and get something nice. Ling workshop was kinda boring but it's cool it's in the same room that data structures was in so that's my third class in that room. After that I was cold and hungry but before the caf I went to the library to print math labs, then I went to the caf and had soup it was so good also Maddie showed up and we talked, got Ben and Jerrys at the caf shop now I'm back at the dorm writing this it is 6pm and tonight hopefully is bedwars

In terms of work I finished the ling lab at the caf and did a little of math lab 0 and wow I don't know how to do a lot of it mostly the trigonometry stuff I'm gonna have to make flashcards or whatever about the unit circle.

Also I love these uniqlo pants yesterday I felt gross and I think its all because I was wearing sweatpants but today I wore clothes I liked and was more productive and less self conscious.

I'm going to try and make a second Obsidian vault and that one will have my class notes and I'll experiment with the spaced repetition plug ins there

I think today is a good example of a balanced day even though I didn't think I'd have very much energy. Let's see how next week goes. The weekend will probably be very lazy