tags: #notes #fleeting
creation date: [[2022-10-25 Tuesday]] 14:04:45
description:: discussing [[No No Boy]]

i did not read it
i barely finished the preface
but its interesting im gonna read it i got the audible audiobook

##### speakers
many perspectives seen
ichiro resents his parents
trying to embrace his american identity, fighting against his japanese identity
ichiros parents migrated to us to make money, plan to go back to japan after
parents not happy in us
mother feels superior as japanese, cant admit japan lost the war, misses japan
mindset

divide between issei and nisei, differing perspectives
ideological tug of war
japanese national pride, seen in ichiros mom
men who were drafted, affected negatively by the war

no-no symbolizes not japanese, not american
inability to change

##### discussion questions
- Why did Ichiro refuse to be drafted? How did that act change his life?
	- his mother's influence, mom planted the seeds of his refusal
	- finds internment unjust, questions it on his own terms
	- his frustration with being interned, marginalized
	- after getting out of prison, people looked down on him
	- shifted his outlook
	- this is what carly buxton was talking about last week, [[Unthinking Collaboration: American Nisei in Transwar Japan]], talking about how japanese americans made these decisions, what influenced them consciously and subconciously
	- we see these conscious and unconscious influences in ichiro (i guess idk i havent read it still)
	- also they didnt know when they filled out the loyalty survey that two specific questions on it would be the most important, if they blended in with the long list of questions that leads to different decisions than if they knew 27 and 28 were so important

- How does he interact with his family (ie mother, father, and brother)?
	- is his mom crazy?
		- at first thought she was crazy, but can understand how those ideas can be ingrained, cognitive dissonance later when her ideals were questions
	- understood his brothers decision to join the army
	- more indifferent to his dad
	- sympathetic to his dad, both have a sense of helplessness, in different contexts
		- father wants to help ichiros mother but cant
		- ichiro is struggling with identity
	- ichiros mom commits suicide, father survives
		- sense of relief betwen ichiro and his father, very sad
		- family divided by one person's radical views
		- father didnt have a strong belief one way or another, sympathetic to mom
	- what makes his mom irrational?
		- refusal to acknowledge japans defeat, comes off as crazy to ichiro
		- stubbornness, unwavering views
		- believes to the end that her family back home is lying, being coerced
	- do you feel sympathetic to the mother?
		- during funeral when family friend gives speech about who she was, see how much she's changed since moving to the us
		- went through trauma of being interned
		- similar to today, relatives that have cultivated radical political views...is it their fault?
	- they were there to find work, make money, then war happened, stuck
		- original intention very different from what they ended up getting
		- makes you feel sympathetic for mother, many things out of her control
	- "she thought she was doing right"

- How did his family experience the war?
	- alrdy talked about

- How does postwar American society treat him and "no no boys"? How does the Japanese American community treat them?
	- ichirio is excluded, looked down on, stigmatized
	- theres even a nickname!
	- no no boys were responsible for reception of japanese americans in general?
		- yes yes boys feel that no noboys tarnished their reputation
		- scapegoat
	- "life is like a coat rack without pegs, only you think there are, hang it, falls down, pick it back up, drop it again"
	- lets compare ichiro and kenji more extensively

- What tensions can we observe in this novel? What are the sources of those tensions?
	- between issei and nissei, between japanese and americans, and more

- How can we consider the historical significances of "no no boys" within the context of American democracy? What can we say about their citizenship and identity?
	- although nissei were american citizens, they were interned based on national origin
	- in the end ichiro feels that kenjis service was futile
	- yes yes boys get put on a pedestal
	- kenji realizes that but the glow will go away, and will be viewed as japanese americans in the end
	- ichiro has more opportunities than kenji does
	- no no boys are looked down on, aka theyre treated like racial minorities already are, so whats changed even
	- "the army didnt do anything about his face to make him look more american"
	- yes yes boys have a spotlight but in the end they will be treated as racial minorities when they take off their uniform
	- 

- When the experiences of Japanese Americans vary so much, would it still make sense to talk about the "history of Japanese Americans"?
	- like in the previous question, kenji knew theyd be boiled down to japanese americans
	- is this line of thinking perpetuating that
	- differences in japanese americans
		- generational differences
		- mindsets
		- intent for going to america
		- yes yes vs no no
		- how internment treated them
		- how the war treated them
		- location in us, east coast, west coast, hawaii
	- there are still first generation japanese americans coming to the us today, very different situations
		- nisei students on campus now, but like different kind of second generation
	- kenjis father, one of the only people in the book thats actually happy, embraced america and tried to live life there to its fullest, complete opposite of ichiros mom who couldnt accept america


japan today is like the third largest country in acception of immigrants
no immigration visa, govt sees those people as sojourners (temp resident), dont appear in statistics as immigrants

##### assignment
second assignment for this class  - paper 
1100 1200 words on no no boy
discussing how japanese americans experiences ww2 and its aftermath
must have an argument
include topics issues weve discussed in class

[[JAPN208 Essay 2 planning]]
> [!NOTE] Assignment 2
> Write a **single-spaced, 1,100- to 1,200-word paper** on John Okada’s _No No Boy_, discussing how Japanese Americans experienced World War II and its aftermath. Your paper should not be a simple summary of the novel. It must have an argument. It must incorporate the issues that we have discussed in class, such as identity and citizenship. Use concrete examples to support your argument. 
> 
> Before submitting your paper, check the following points. Failure to follow any of these will result in deduction in points.
> 
> -   Put **your name** on your paper. 
> -   Organize your argument within **1,200 words**.
> -   **Single-space** your paper. 
> -   Spell the names of author and characters correctly.  
> -   Submit your paper in a **Word file**. 
> 
> **The due date is November 8**. Use Blackboard to submit your paper. 
> 
> It is possible to earn 100 points for this assignment. An A-level paper should demonstrate:
> 
> -   Accurate and proper understanding of the novel
> -   Accurate and proper understanding of the historical context
> -   Clear, thoughtful, and original argument, supported with evidence
> -   Well-planned and well-thought out organization