tags: #notes #fleeting
creation date: [[2022-11-10 Thursday]] 14:01:14
description:: Modernization Theory

japn courses offered next semester
new one called japanese video games that would be fun and silly

new unit
## Modernization Theory
- How to narrate US occupation of Japan, American military presence in Asia, and the Vietnam War?
	- [[The Only Woman in the Room]] is one way of talking about occupation
		- she talked about how japan was backwards because women were oppressed, helped to change that
	- other views of occupation - look at occupation more broadly
- Modernization theory
	- way of influencing how occupation is narrated
	- an alternative to marxism
	- created as a response to marxism
- Edwin Reischauer's [[Beyond Vietnam]]
	- we'll dicuss next class
	- Edwin Reischauer was an american diplomat in the 1960s
	- promoted modernization theory

##### Modernization Theory
- Explains the process by which a society modernizes; seeks to identify factors that enable economic growth
- Influential analytical framework in social sciences in 1950s and 1960s
	- not just influential in economics but in sociology, anthropology, political science, history
- Seen as alternative to Marxism: revolution not necessary for social change
- Response to the Cold War and the worldwide spread of communism
- W. W. Rostow, *The Stages of Economic Growth: A Non-Communist Manifesto,* 1960
	- an economist
	- probably the most famous modernization theorist
	- wrote a book
	- response to the communist manifesto
- Rostow worked for Kennedy and Johnson administrations: Counselor of the Dept. of State and DIrector of Policy Planning
	- containing communism not just through military means but also academic, intellectual, etc

##### Marx's Historical Materialism
Developmental stages:
- Feudalism - aristocratic, no social movement
- French Revolution, American Revolution, etc. leads to next stage
- Capitalism - social mobility possible
- Russian Revolution, Chinese Revolution, etc. leads to next stage
- Socialism - working class

##### Rostow's Five Stages
Developmental stages:
- Traditional society - society based on agriculture
- Preconditions to take-off - manufacturing grows, more trade
- Take-off - industrialization, more investment
- Drive to maturity - industry diversifies, tech innovation advances
- High mass consumption - tertiary industry grows, solid middle class
very influential in the 1960s
one thing it doesnt discuss/mention is the role of colonialism

##### Modernization Theory and Edwin Reischauer
1910-1990
- Modernization theory introduced to Japan in the 1960s
- Protest to revision of the US-Japan Security Treaty or Anpo (\_), 1960: deep anti-American sentiment among Japanese
- Reischauer, American ambassador to Japan 1961-1966: expected to mend US-Japan relations in the aftermath of the protest to the Security Treaty
	- studied japanese during ths war
	- 
- Japan represented as a successful model of modernization in the non-West: capitalism and liberal democracy
	- it was an asian country that developed like western countries - became a model

Marxism was influential in japan 

Hakone

historical narrative and how to narrate history
- when you experience something you can communicate that experience to others through language/you have to represent it
- depending on how you communicate, meanings will be different
- modernization theory and marxism are two different ways of narrating history
- ex. you are very poor and work hard but dont get paid enough and you have health issues
	- in american dream view you can work hard and keep going and eventually move up
	- in marxism you are being exploited by capitalists


##### Questions for the reading [[Beyond Vietnam]]
- Who is the audience? WHen the author says "we" and "our," who are "we"?
- What is his agenda as a specialist of Japanese history and culture and American diplomat in Japan?
- What is his unit of analysis? Class, gender, nation, etc?
- What is the "Asian problem"? According to him, how did this problem develop? For whom is it a "problem"?
- What knowledge of Japan and Asia does he intend to create through this narrative?
- How do you critique this narrative? Are there other ways of explaining the issues that he is addressing?