tags: #notes #fleeting
creation date: [[2022-11-18 Friday]] 11:02:44
description:: combinatorics start; product and sum rule

exam on monday after break

today and next monday review of everything thats on the exam
next monday will be zoom only
ok no not reviewing
he just meant everything we talk about today will also be on the exam
thanks a lot!

first finishing up last class - traversal of binary tree example using structural uinduction or whatever - with recursion 

binary tree traversal with recursion
```
Print_Inorder(root)
	if (root == None) return
	Print_Inorder(root.left)
	print(root)
	Print_Inorder(root.right)
```

remember prefix and postfix from data structures? nope
```
Print_Prefix(root)
	if (root == None) return
	print(root)
	Print_Prefix(root.left)
	Print_Prefix(root.right)

Print_Postfix(root)
	if (root == None) return
	Print_Postfix(root.left)
	Print_Postfix(root.right)
	print(root)
```

Combinatorics
ok so we're skipping a lot of those solving problems recursively examples n going to lecture 15
anyway

## Combinatorics
- the study of arrangements of objects
- counting objects or arrangements with certian properties

##### Product rule
- suppose a task can be broken down into two tasks
- if $\exists$ $n_1$ ways to do the first task
- and **for each of these ways**, $\exists$ $n_2$ ways to do the second task
- then, there are $n_1 * n_2$ ways to do the procedure
- ex.
	- The number of license plates of three letters (a to z) followed by three numbers (0 to 9): $26^3 · 10^3$
	- The number of functions from $A = \{a_1,\ldots,a_m\}$ to $B = \{b_1,\dots,b_n\}: n^m$, since $a_1$ can be mapped in $n$ ways, $a_2$ can be mapped in $n$ ways independently, etc.
	- The number of one-to-one functions from A to B: $n(n−1)\ldots(n−m+1)$. Because $n$ choices for $a_1$, $n-1$ choices for $a_2$, etc.
	- The number of subsets of set $S$. Equal to the number of bit strings of length $|S|$, which is $2^{|S|}$

##### Sum rule
- if a task can be done either in one of $n_1$ ways OR in one of $n_2$ ways, where none of the set of $n_1$ ways is the same as any of the set of $n_2$ ways,
- then $\exists$ $n_1 + n_2$ ways to do the task
- ex.
	- Choose one element from one of three lists of sizes $n_1,n_2,n_3: n_1 +n_2 +n_3$ 
	- Here is an example of counting using both rules in combination.
	- The number of passwords that must be 6–8 characters long, where each character is an uppercase letter or a digit, and must contain at least one digit: Let $P_6$, $P_7$, and $P_8$ be the numbers of passwords of length 6, 7, and 8, respectively. Since there is clearly no overlap between them, the total number of passwords is $P_6+P_7+P_8 = (36^6 −26^6 ) + (36^7 −26^7 ) + (36^8 −26^8 ) = 2,684,483,063,360$.