---
title: "Genres"
---
This page explains the genres used to categorize the works discussed in this project, and also acts as a way to view the project in prose, separate from the timeline on the main page.

## Genres
This project focuses on specific subgenres of fantasy and how they evolve over time. These genres are referred to in the project as "hero fantasy" genres because of the suffix "-xia," meaning "hero," that follows some of them.

These genres can be traced back you [Youxia](Youxia.md), meaning "Wandering Hero." Youxia is used as a loose description for early fantasy works that follow knight errant/wandering vigilante characters that seek to create justice as they travel around China. These heroes usually travel alone and solve problems according to their own moral compass and set of ethics. Youxia characteristics are seen in [Tang Dynasty poetry](The%20Swordsman.md) and even in works as far back as [Records of the Grand Historian](Records%20of%20the%20Grand%20Historian.md).

From youxia comes [Wuxia](Wuxia.md), a more well-defined, structured genre. Wuxia translates to "Martial Hero," and wuxia stories contain strong martial arts heroes and influence from philosophies like Daoism and Buddhism. What distinguishes wuxia from future genres is that these martial powers are still fairly grounded in reality, and the stories are often set in historical settings. An early example of wuxia storytelling is in the [Water Margin](Water%20Margin.md), where a band of outlaws fight against corruption. The genre truly came to prominence in the 20th century with works like [Legends of the Condor Heroes](Legends%20of%20the%20Condor%20Heroes.md).

[Xianxia](Xianxia.md) is a subgenre of wuxia, translating to "Immortal Hero." Where Wuxia's combat focused on (mostly) grounded martial arts, xianxia's heroes gain supernatural powers over the course of their story and combat is larger than life. Where a wuxia hero might be able to clear out a room of combatants with ease, a xianxia hero could level a mountain in one blow. The roots of these stories are seen as far back as the first century BCE in works like the [Mountains and Seas Classic](Mountains%20and%20Seas%20Classic.md), which take inspiration for godly powers from Daoist ideals. Another early work that influenced the genre as a whole is [Journey to the West](Journey%20to%20the%20West.md) with the story of Sun Wukong's rise and fall. The modern xianxia genre ballooned in prominence with the advent of the internet and online story publishing websites. [Mother of Learning](Mother%20of%20Learning.md), for example, was first published serially on websites like [RoyalRoad](https://www.royalroad.com/home) and [WuxiaWorld](https://www.wuxiaworld.com) before becoming popular enough to be traditionally published.

Digital publishing allowed for Chinese fantasy to reach a wider global audience than ever before. With these works easily available, more attention was drawn to them as the online fantasy community grew, which led to Chinese works being translated into other languages. This accessibility allowed the community to grow even further, leading to more translations and more writers from outside of China. With all of these new works coming from vastly different perspectives around the world, as well as influence from non-Chinese works like shonen anime, new subgenres of xianxia were created. These include Cultivation, focusing on the process of heroes gaining power, and [LitRPG](LitRPG.md), where characters gain power through an RPG-like interface. An example of litRPG is Andrew Rowe's [Sufficiently Advanced Magic](Sufficiently%20Advanced%20Magic.md), a digitally published series which was actually written by an American author.

As the influence of Chinese fantasy grew, English-speaking authors began to draw influence from these works into their own stories. The Westernized genre that evolved from xianxia has been coined as [Progression Fantasy](Progression%20Fantasy.md) by its community. Works like [Sufficiently Advanced Magic](Sufficiently%20Advanced%20Magic.md) amd [Cradle](Cradle.md) fall under this genre, which focuses on characters starting weak and gaining exponential amounts of power throughout their story. The [Stormlight Archives](Stormlight%20Archives.md) and [The Wheel of Time](The%20Wheel%20of%20Time.md) series are also considered progression fantasy. The influence these Western works take from their Eastern counterparts is clear in the themes, tropes, and history they share.