tags: #notes #topic
creation date: [[2022-11-17 Thursday]] 15:14:46
description:: includes online comments

i actually have to write online comments i forgot
starting with this reading

Mineo Higashi's Child of Okinawa tells the story of a boy living in Okinawa after World War II, during American occupation of the island. The novel is heavily inspired by Higashi's childhood in Okinawa. The story gives insight into the sheer degree of America's rule over the island. Okinawa City itself, where young Tsuneyoshi and his family run a bar, was built along the military highway by Japanese displaced by the war in order to attract business from soldiers passing through. There are many parallels to John Okada's No No Boy in the story, such as the main character's strained relationship with his parents due to the effects of the war and the somber tone of the story. Unlike No No Boy, there is little mention of Japanese identity. Instead of looking at the internal conflict brought about by the war and occupation, the characters around Tsuneyoshi seem resigned to this life, and make little mention of the occupation. The adults around Tsuneyoshi gossip about crimes committed by soldiers with the same tone they might talk about damage after a typhoon; like the occupation is a natural disaster, and there's nothing they can do to prevent it.

It's made clear that Okinawa is no place for a child to grow up. Tsuneyoshi is surrounded by sex work and the novel spares no detail in describing how his parents' business affects him. Where other post-war novels might show the brutal aftermath of war by describing characters with a desensitization to violence, Higashi paints a grotesque picture of Okinawa by describing Tsuneyoshi's desensitization to sex, leaving the reader feeling uncomfortable. The end of the reading shows Tsuneyoshi enacting his plan to escape his parents and "this town where everyone's life is filled with misery, this town where women are sold night and day" (114), by boarding an American yacht during a typhoon, and ends there abruptly. Whether Tsuneyoshi escapes Okinawa is left ambiguous, which I find symbolic of the lasting effects of American occupation even today in Okinawa.